Through a thick mist, the Band of the Falcon, completely silent, walk in two single-file rows to an unknown destination. Guts notices them through the fog and runs toward them, asking them where they are going. He is suspicious of their destination, and pleads with them to turn back. They don't respond to his words, or anything around them. Despite moving toward them, they grow ever more distant. Guts begs not to be left behind as his vision fades.

Guts wakes from his dream in an odd location: a cave. The most prominent source of light comes from a hole in the cave's ceiling, and the only sound is that of falling water and chirping birds. Guts is alone, laying in a cot, his right eye bandaged. He turns his head to the cave's entrance when he hears footsteps, and from the bright opening, a young girl enters. Unable to make out her features, Guts asks who she is.

She excitedly runs toward him but clumsily slips on the stone floor. It's Erica, the girl Guts lived with during his year away from the Band of the Falcon. She is followed by Rickert, who is overcome with emotion upon seeing that Guts is awake. He explains that Guts has been unconscious for four days, that he is in an ore cave near Godot's house, and that he was brought there by the Skull Knight.

Rickert inquires about the events that occurred within the giant tornado, and what happened to the Band of the Falcon. Their mention causes Guts to become agitated, and he quickly sits up (putting strain on his wounds), revealing that his entire body, with the exception of the left side of his face, has been bandaged. He asks about Casca. Rickert seems at a loss of what to say, but Guts persists. His question is answered by Erica, who points to the waterfall deeper in the cave.

Casca, wearing only a shirt, is basking beneath the light falls. Despite barely being able to stand, Guts forces himself up and jumps into the calf-deep pool created by the falls. Casca notices and recoils from Guts, concerning him. When he touches her shoulder, she cries out and flinches away. Guts grabs her wrists and her hands, yet she continues to violently yank her limbs from his grip. She eventually bites his fingers and runs to Erica, clinging to the young girl.

Rickert explains that Casca has been awake for two days already, but despite her healed wounds, she does not act normally, refraining from speaking and only trusting Erica.

Guts moves forward to touch Casca again but stops himself. Instead, he makes for the cave's exit, intending to leave. Despite Rickert's pleas for him to stay, Guts walks through the cave's opening and runs away, into the wild.