Adonis slumps over and reaches out, and Guts grabs his hand. The boy's attempts to speak are foiled by the blood flooding out of his mouth. He slowly dies, releasing his grip on Guts.

As the realization that he's just killed a child sinks in, Guts is spotted by two guards, whom he quickly kills. He promptly begins his escape. Hassan has been informed of a robber's entry, and when he checks in on Julius and Adonis, he finds them both dead. The so-called robber, Guts, has made his way outside, having to fight the untold number of guards who spot and attack him. Unable to kill them all without putting himself at risk of being identified, Guts vaults over the mansion's perimeter wall, but not before his shoulder is pierced by a crossbow bolt. Landing on the other side of the wall, Guts notices a small barred window at its base, and after kicking the bars in, he jumps through the hole into a sewer. Landing awkwardly, Guts' head hits a solid, jutting stone, and he loses consciousness.

Guts dreams of his younger self-fighting against Gambino. As their swords clash, Guts tries to tell Gambino he only wanted Gambino's appreciation. Their fight is interrupted by the silhouette of Zodd's monstrous form, who beheads Gambino and stabs the young Guts through the abdomen. Zodd reaches up to his face, but the light reveals that it isn't a monstrous Zodd, but a monstrous Guts, mirroring Guts' accidental killing of Adonis.

Guts wakes with a start, and the injury sustained to his cranium causes vomiting and profuse bleeding from his head. He slowly moves to find his way out of the sewer.

In a tavern in Wyndham, Casca, Corkus, Judeau, Rickert, and Pippin are all having drinks. Judeau mentions not having seen Guts all day, and they suspect Guts is off training on his own. As if on cue, the tavern's door opens, and in steps Guts, dirty, bloody, and apparently on the verge of passing out. The mercenaries rush over to him, and he asks Casca where Griffith is, to which she replies he's attending a party hosted by Charlotte. As Guts turns to leave, Casca notices the arrow wound in Guts' arm.

The large banquet hall where Griffith is located is at the top of a long flight of stairs. As Guts climbs them, he looks up, where he can see, thanks to the lights let off by the establishment, Griffith and Charlotte sharing a moment alone together by the large fountain at the top of the stairs.