Guts and Griffith have returned to Wyndham, where Griffith surprises the other Band of the Falcon members by revealing that he's really alive. He's greeted warmly by them all, and, after savoring the emotional scene, Guts leaves.

The Queen's funeral occurs several days later. Her death and the attempted assassination of Griffith are rumored to have been committed by Tudor assassins, or perhaps a third party whose goal is to obstruct the armistice between Midland and Tudor.

A month after the funeral, in the late hours of the night, Guts packs all his belongings, minus the cuirass he wore and the now-broken sword he wielded as captain of the raiders, and begins his departure from Wyndham. He is spotted by Casca, who is in her room watching the snow fall. Knowing what he is trying to do, she quickly gets dressed and runs after him. She catches up to him just before he leaves Wyndham's perimeter, and asks whether he really is leaving the Band of the Falcon. He remains silent. Casca tries to use the newly-formed friendship they've developed as incentive for him to stay, but he isn't persuaded, having long known that he cannot find and accomplish his own dream while he's crushed under the massive weight of Griffith's ambition.

Judeau and Corkus walk out and find them talking, having been passed by Casca in the hallway as she ran to catch Guts. Judeau bids Guts return to Wyndham with them to talk. Casca, left alone in the snow, decides to run and alert Griffith to the situation, hoping he'll be the one to convince Guts to stay.

Judeau has led Guts and Corkus to a tavern, where Judeau and Guts converse while Corkus flirts with the barmaid. Guts admits to Judeau that his decision to leave the band had been made since before their mission to recapture Doldrey. Corkus, not liking the words Guts is uttering, chastises Guts for throwing away everything he's earned during his time with the band: his comrades, his social status, his very reason for being. Guts concurs, and states that the very fact that he only has purpose so long as he's with the band is the problem. He remembers the words Griffith spoke in his conversation with Charlotte by the fountain: a man who lives without purpose, without his own dream, has no place at Griffith's side.

Guts wants to stand with Griffith shoulder to shoulder in life, not looking up at him from within the Band of the Falcon.