The smallest of the God Hand members explains that the crimson Beherit only found its way to Griffith because he is qualified to become a demon. It goes on to say that the naked people who stand between the God Hand and the Band of the Falcon are all apostles, people like Zodd and Wyald who can transform into monsters. They've all used Beherits to achieve their forms. Griffith's particular Beherit is different, however.

The use of the crimson Beherit, the Egg of the King, will make Griffith the fifth member of the God Hand instead of a simple apostle. When the female member casually mentions that the band members will be sacrificed to turn Griffith into a God Hand member, the apostles begin to laugh and, all together on cue, transform before the petrified humans.

Guts begins to turn on Griffith, asking if he really is going to sacrifice the band to become a God Hand. The mute Griffith cannot physically answer, but he is transfixed by the God Hand anyway. The tall, slender God Hand member takes it upon itself to explain: their lives had been spun through causality to that point in time - the "Invocation of Doom".

The remaining being advances the process of turning Griffith into one of them. An enormous hand, palm up, rises from the ground to bring Griffith into the sky. As Guts is holding Griffith, he is also raised up, but the rest of the Band of the Falcon loses their footing on the ground of faces, which move to form the enormous arm.

The faces which compose the arm make an active attempt to keep Griffith from falling to the distant ground to his death, but they make no effort to do the same for Guts, who is held up only by Griffith's hand. Pain flares in Griffith's injured arm, and his grip loosens; Guts falls down the length of the arm as Griffith continues to rise.

Stabbing one of the faces that composes the arm with his dagger to stop his fall, Guts begins the slow climb to Griffith, who is sitting in the enormous palm of the hand. The God Hand each occupy a finger of the outstretched arm, with the exception of the index finger, which does not yet have a member of the God Hand to occupy it.